So this is part three of the ICICI
Elevate Health Insurance Plan. In this video,
I am going to explain all the riders in detail.
How each rider
works, what are the limitations,
what are the demerits, what are the merits. I am going to
explain each and every thing in detail, especially
what are the catches in those riders. I am
also going to tell you all those things. So, according to your
requirements, you should choose what
fits your requirements and your pre-existing health conditions. It should not happen that
you take any unwanted riders and later
find out that it was useless for you and
your money has been wasted in the long term.
So let's get started. First of all, let's
talk about room modification. With the
help of this rider, you can upgrade your room rent,
which is a single private AC room, to
no room rent,
or you can downgrade it to a sharing
room rent, or you can also see a third option,
1 per of the sum in
short pay.  And for ICU you get a
limit of 2 per so depending
upon your budget you can downgrade or
upgrade. Now what is different in this is that the
single private AC room which
is available in the build, no one has told
here which single private AC room will be there,
when I went into their definitions
in their policy writings, then it is
clear to me that brother the single
private AC room is your
lowest category, so only if you go to the most economical
room then you will get the full amount
for your hospitalization, otherwise the
company will apply proportion deduction there also, so
you should take this rider after thinking carefully. The next rider is
Power Booster. Now because of this rider you will
get 100% no claim bonus every year which
comes in the name of Guaranteed Super Bonus in this plan. Now it has some terms and
conditions which you need to understand.
First of all whether you claim or not,
irrespective of the claim, you will
get this Guaranteed Super Bonus, that means
if you have claimed ₹ lakh  If you have taken a plan of Rs. 1000 then
next year itself your sum will become 10 for 10 and the
next year it will become
10 for 10 for 10 and in this way it will keep increasing, so there are some terms and conditions of this, let us see one by one, first of all there is no limit here as to how much maximum you can accumulate, if you have continued the policy for 20 years then you will get 100% for 20 years, if it is for 100 years then you will get it
till 100 years which is not possible but
I am telling you here that it is
clearly mentioned in their conditions also that
you should
not take accumulation till unlimited sum in short because there is no need also because they already have
coverage of unlimited sum in short, in the third rider they have
clearly mentioned that by any chance if you
opt out of this rider in future that means
you continued for 4 years and
also paid money to this rider, after 4 years you feel that the
premium is very expensive  The
policy is becoming very expensive. I have to
remove this rider from this plan. So,
whatever guaranteed super bonus you have accumulated will become
zero, which is
clearly mentioned here. You are getting so much
no claim bonus. Because of this, the
company knows that their liability will become
very high in 10 years or 20 years.
That is why they have introduced this third pointer.
Because I do not
think that this rider will be so affordable in the long term.
But if you are young, then
definitely take it because you have to keep a horizon of 5 years or
10 years. This
plan has been built very thoughtfully.
But this
may be for a futuristic company or is it for the customer
or not. Because no one knows how much the premium will increase. The
next rider is infinite. It will be a
policy of minus 10 lakhs.
Still, if you want, you can take a claim of one crore, two
crores, 10 crores, thousands of crores. It
sounds very good to hear it just once. What a wonderful thing the company has given.  This is what I
wanted but when I
dig into the terms and conditions, I find out that it was
important to understand its terms and conditions as well. The happiness that I had starts to have a little
doubt. So let's
first look at the terms and conditions. Infighting is available
if you are buying the policy for the first time or if you are
porting it from some other company,
or you can buy it in the first renewal,
which they have clearly
mentioned here. If you want to
buy it in the second renewal, then you are not eligible,
then you will not get this rider. And suppose you have
bought the policy for nine years in one go
and you have not taken this rider or
you forgot, then you will
not be able to get it in the renewal as well, which
they have explained in these two pointers. You
can use this infighting. You can use it for day care procedures or
treatment. You
can use it for eye treatment. That is, only one
claim in lifetime without any
limit. It is a good thing, but now I have a doubt.
Pre and post hospitalization has
not been mentioned here, that means it will
not be covered. Now why I am saying this,
you will know later. In the second pointer,
he has mentioned that
only once in a lifetime, whether your policy is
individual or float, you can
claim for any one member once on the
basis of this
unlimited amount rider. To claim the unlimited amount,
you will have to keep this rider continuously in your policy.
If you
withdraw it in between due to high
premium, then you will not get that benefit. The benefit gets
void there itself. And if
you take its benefit once, then you will not be eligible
for life or any member
in the flutter policy will not be eligible,
which he has
clearly mentioned in his third pointer. Now you people must be having
doubts, what is the catch in this?
Well, the rider is coming at a cheap price and
in this I am getting unlimited amount of claim.
What is the catch in this? The catch is that the
company knows that in the beginning you
All these things will not be needed. Now when the
need arises, it will be after two to five years. By then, the
premiums for the riders would also have increased a lot.
On top of that, because of the fifth pointer,
I have a little doubt why the company
says that your basic sum assured,
guaranteed cumulative bonus, that means built-in, which
comes at Rs. 20, every year you get
that power booster which we just talked about with
100% no claim bonus, or you have taken
some inflation protector, after adding
all of them, your total coverage becomes
zero and you need some more money, only then will
your inflation happen.
They have clearly mentioned here that
after utilization of the above
sum, in short, that means all these things, the
total sum, in short, shall be reduced to
zero. This is what you see as zero. It is
clearly mentioned here for the policy year following
the payment of the claim under the inflation.
They had mentioned earlier also that
for pre and post  You will not be eligible when
you have already zeroed everything, then
who will pay me for the post? It will also cost money for that.
Suppose there is some infection in it and
some more treatment will be required, then
you will not be eligible for that entire year. The
coverage you had becomes
zero. So this also has limitations which you
need to understand. I know that companies are trying to
give something good to the customers,
but with good things there are some side effects
which you need to know. The plan is good, the
riders are good, but if you
know all these things, then you will decide, then it is
fun. Then this is the intention of
this advisor that you people should
know everything and if you are liking the video till now, then
friend, give it a like. If you have
not done it yet, then do it. Because it takes a lot of time to
create all such things in the content. There would
also be efforts to reach you in an easy way. So
friend, one like is enough for all these things.
And in one catch here, I would like to tell you
that  If you have
taken Worldwide coverage, then this rider will
not be activated here or it is not useful. That
means if you are thinking that if I
shift abroad or take this rider, if I
go abroad and I
need crores there, then
I will be able to take a claim because of this rider, which you will
not be able to take. It has been clearly
mentioned here in this pointer that you will
not be able to use this thing for Worldwide coverage. And one thing here I have to
tell you that this Infa Care
rider does not change your room rent.
That means if you are eligible and
you did not upgrade for a single private AC room
while taking the plan, then you will have to take
treatment in a single private AC room.
If you are thinking that brother, I am going to
use this rider in my next
hospitalization, then I go to Lux Room, then
you will not be eligible,
how much money will you have to pay, which is
clearly mentioned in point number nine
that room rent is applicable under  This
category is capped at single private AC room which is
available in these builds, without any
rider, jump start, they have
clearly mentioned that there will be a reduction in
waiting period to the 30 days for the
accepted pre-existing diseases, if you have
any of these like asthma, diabetes, hypertension,
high lipidemia, which means
cholesterol,
obesity, which means overweight, coronary artery disease,
we call it CD, and if you have
declared any of these to the company and the
company has accepted it, then your
waiting period which is inbuilt in these plans will be
reduced to
30 days, well and good, and once you have taken the
rider, you have to
run it continuously for a year, you ran it for a year,
people knew that you have to run it for three years,
after a year the rider will automatically expire
and I will have to pay the standard premium,
but this is not true,
because after 3 years this rider expire
but still you remain eligible for loading,
so this was the only problem I had.  And here is the
video, I have clearly asked
my executive, in our
meetings, ICICI official
person Monica ji, actually my doubt is
that I have many clients who get
very confused about Jump Start,
they say that customer care told us that after
three years we will not be charged any loading, so I will be charged a little loading here, there will be loading, of course, that waiting period of 30 years is being changed to 30 days and during Jump Start there will be no loading, but as soon as three years are over,
I will remove your Jump Start premium
and your plan will become normal loading,
correct, actually many
agents of ICICI Bank also get
very confused, so I feel
that you should focus on this in every meeting,
otherwise there will be unwanted confusion,
after all, Jump Start Rider is a
very good rider,
you are getting a plan in the standard company, well and good,
but the customer has the right to know that
You have taken Jump Start plan for one year, it is well and
good, but as soon as the year passes, you will be charged
loading based on your
health condition at that moment of time. Now
how much will this loading be? Loading means you are
charged extra in comparison to a normal person. You should not buy the policy by closing the fire.
In short, I
would like to say that after understanding all the plans, after doing
research, after going through the brochure,
everyone buys the plan, but
what is the problem of claim rejection,
partial rejection or claim
not getting approved. On top of that, sometimes the
companies report it directly. That means they
say that brother, this claim is
not mentioned anywhere in our terms and conditions or they say that sir,
you already had this disease. So the problem is that
you have selected the plan, but
how will you escape from all these things? Many of my
subscribers call me and say that
sir, all these things are becoming a problem.
Looking at all these problems, I  I have
made a video in which I have explained
how you should follow precautions,
follow some guidelines so that
none of your claims gets rejected due to any reason.
Yes, sometimes there can be a delay
but I guarantee that yours will not get rejected.
In that video, you will also know how
you should take the policy, what things you have to
disclose while taking the policy, on
top of that, when the policy is issued,
what steps you have to follow, on top
of that, when the renewal happens, what
guidelines you have to follow,
what
things you have to follow when you are hospitalized, I have explained all these things in detail,
which till now I used to
tell only in my paid consultations. You
can go and watch this video, you will get its link in
the description box below. Yes,
this is a paid video because nothing is
available for free. If you really
want that your claim should not be denied or partially rejected by the
company in future due to any reason, then
go to that video.  You must check the value you have
paid, you will get the value of it in that video.
That is my guarantee. Next
is health checkup. Now you get annual health
checkup. It used to be inbuilt in many companies,
but now the companies have
made it an extra rider so that the premium looks low or fewer people get it. So
this is optional on you. If you want to
take it, you can take it. Here
they have given some limit that you get it up to 0.05 or
maximum 5000.
Because if you ask me
whether I would like to take it, then I will mostly
say no because they already have a
prefixed package that you can get this
test done only here. And I feel that
if I live in metro cities or in
such places where there is a diagnostic center
near me within a radius of 1 km, then
I will
visit them and choose their package as and
when I need it. Next
rider is voluntary deduction. Now here you get
deduction ranging from 10000 to 50000.  You can see that
voluntary direction is something that I will
try to explain in an easy way. Suppose
you have a standard policy of 10 lakhs. Now what
happens in ₹ lakhs is that you are
covered from ₹ 1 lakh to ₹ 10 lakhs. But if
you take a deductible bill of ₹ 50,000, then
after ₹ 50,000, that means you are
covered from ₹ 10 lakhs to ₹ 10 lakhs. That means you will
not be covered for the basic ₹ 50,000. That means if there is
any hospitalization in the entire year, then the
company will want you to
spend ₹ 50,000 from your pocket first, in one hospitalization
or you will have to pay ₹ 50,000
from your pocket as well. And once the
bill goes above ₹ 50,000, then the company will
give you cover from ₹ 50,000 to ₹ 10 lakh.
Similarly, in a policy of ₹ 10 lakhs, if you have
chosen a deductible of ₹ 10,000.  So in the same way,
you will get coverage from ₹0.01 to ₹1 lakh.
Now what happens with this is that if
you have taken a deductible of ₹50 lakh, then there is
no liability of the company, nor is the
company's money saved up to ₹50 lakh. Therefore, the
company gives you a discount. This is
good for those who already have
corporate insurance, they can take it
or those who want to keep the premium a little lower can
take it, but I
feel that it is of no use. If
any advisor or anyone is
convincing you that you should take this deductible
so that the pre-deductible comes down, then avoid these things
because in the terms and
conditions, they have clearly mentioned
that if you want to take out these future deductibles, then it will be taken out only on the
basis of your underwriting. That
means if anything new is
diagnosed, some critical thing is
diagnosed, then you will never be able to
take out that deductible in your life.
But yes, if you  If you are healthy and have
not made any major claim, then the company will
give you the option to withdraw the easily detectable
rider, but during renewal only. These riders are maternity centric riders, so
I have kept them in one category, you get four
riders. Now when I
saw their premiums, they were very
expensive, so I thought that it would
not be worth it. If you are taking this plan
and some advisor or agent has
convinced you that brother, take this plan for
maternity, then I would not say no because there are
many such plans in the market
which are very cheaply available and even a woman or a
girl takes the plan, then
also she gets maternity cover easily. There is
no need to add the husband. So,
this plan can be taken separately with the husband
without maternity and that plan in which the
delivery benefits of maternity are
more, the
premium is also less there, if they
take a separate plan, then also that plan can be
closed later.  You can get it done and she can continue
with the husband in this plan. Its terms
and conditions are very straightforward.
If you want to avail maternity benefit
by adding ten riders, then you will
get a maximum maternity benefit of up to ₹10 lakh,
maximum up to 10 lakh or 1 lakh, whichever
is lowest. There is a
waiting period of 24 months
in this plan. This plan has an in-built rider,
but if you want to reduce the waiting period from 24 months to 12 months, then
they have given a separate rider and the
coverage that the wife gets is twice the maternity. That means
if you have got a maternity benefit of ₹1 lakh, then you will
get a maternity benefit of ₹1 lakh for the baby, which is very
less, that is why I am not focusing much on it.
Customer care agents
may try to sell you money,
but stay away from all these things.  The
health insurance industry is
growing rapidly and companies have to sustain it
because their unearned claim
ratio is already high. Now, companies want
your claims to be low, premiums to be high,
and profits to be high. As a
company, that's why
they have introduced
some mandatory riders for the port policy,
which is optional for new policy holders. If you want to take it, you
can take it, otherwise you can also
not take it. But if you have a port
policy from another company and are trying to come here, then
you will inherit these riders. That does
n't mean you will
still get a claim protector. Yes, this is an
important thing that you get, which is a
good thing, and you should also take it.
Claim protector is for non-medical
items like gloves, masks, PP kits,
sanitizers, injections, bandages, cotton, whatever use
and throw items are used in the hospital
when you get hospitalized.
We have to take a claim protector to cover all those things. So,
if you have taken a new
policy,  Whether you are taking it or getting it ported, it is
necessary for you to take it. The point to be said is
that the company does not want any money because
now you are taking a port policy, a quoted customer for 4 to
5 years. That means the company knows
that you have to be given coverage from day one, that is why
they cannot charge you loading.
Instead of loading, they have given you some fake ads, which are useful
but the company
knows that this will increase the premium
and you will not have many options, so
your overall premium increases because of this.
So friend, whatever riders I have
told you till now, I hope you have
understood them in detail and the rest
of the riders, like these are all the riders
which I have not explained yet,
I feel that even if you look at the terms and conditions or not,
you will
understand everything in detail
because all those things are easy to understand
where I felt that the customer should
know everything, so I have
explained them to you in detail, now whether you buy them or not.
That's up to you because I have
told you everything inside out and if
you have not understood some things then
you can comment in the comment section below and that's all
for this video for now and thank
you for watching this video guys have a good
day bye